first know this. life is all one. the truth of one language, one currency, one fixed system where the financial markets are all governed by physical laws rather than emotional, need to be achieved.

communism, socialism, and democracy (and any others) all become the biomes of the human experience. Think of futuristic social order being centralized by an overarching body that governs in order to have value preserved in dangerous situations, and productivity rife in others. ecosystems that pass through countries and generations of societies to build up coffers so that the gains from human productivity can be centralized and create massive technology upgrades. 

Capitalism and trade will be a basis for action.

energy efficiency should be strived for. Any waste would be the folly and misguided self interest in those people who are lookng to make the short dollar at the expense of others. 

let us move foward into the not too distant future, where humanity finds itself transporting goods within its solar system. 

for the uninitiatied, the non-radioactive solid planets were the ones we were able to take on first.
finding ice on these planets was not difficult. every one of them aside from a select few too close to the sun had ice on it's polar caps minimaly. 
the first voyages to mars and moons of jupiter and saturn were messy, trying to contain and use the water for dwellings on the planets, as terraforming was in its infancy, and the human collective on the planet did not think of the natural state of growth and its most efficient manners.
mixing water with the mars salts and dirt, and forming domiciles huts and buildings was an easy solution that was only considered when terraforming became a campaign for the enterprising landowneres upon planets. 
human kind gravitated inefficiently to the standards that space agencies and gocernments exercised in their high tech facilities. 
power, poverty, control, hierarchies, addiction, and the lack of compassion in humans was the source of many problems. sometimes they still arose, but, an interplanetary standard became the way of life. 
had human kind modeled a civilization at the peaks of its triumphs and achievements virtually before they expanded to mars, they could have replicated the calculation as the planetary landlords do now. taking the planet's gravity, post-lens solar exposure and storm likeliness into the equation, the planet was virtually recreated with technologies that complied with molecular gravity and current construction achievements. a team of explorers was then sent to that planet with their decades work set out in fromt of them - collaborate the sharing of the water on the icecaps to build each civilization, and then leave it in the driest form possible. caves, raised beds, and domiciles would be built. the geology and expanse of metals would determine height and support of buildings, while solar radiation would determine the ability of shade that buildings would produce. . airports, industrial parks, aqueducts, sewers, tunnels, highways and various other beauties and feats of the virtually modeled cities would be constructed. garbage zones where material waste from around the planet would drift and be collected were built. storages for grain and  ramps for travel were constructed, so much using the infintely small amount of water on the planet.

but after a decade, these men woud be sent off to another planet, maybe leaving behind children, but definitely leaving behind the water and a decent zised amount of organic vegetative growth, where carbon dioxide could be naturally replaced with sugar creating organisms. 

large amounts of robotics have been created aswell to keep these constructors safe while they work.


